So now let's talk about VPC Flow Logs.
VPC Flow Logs allow you to capture information
from IP traffic going into interfaces.
So that could be at the VPC level, the subnet level,
or the elastic network interface, ENI level.
So you have three kinds of Flow Logs.
They're very helpful to monitor,
and troubleshoot connectivity issues happening within VPC.
So these logs can be sent to Amazon S3,
CloudWatch Logs, and Kinesis Data Firehose,
and they will capture information
for also AWS managed interfaces such as ELB, RDS,
ElastiCache, Redshift, WorkSpaces, you're NAT gateway,
you transit gateway and so on.
So this is what a VPC Flow Log looks like.
So there is a format associated with it,
but there is a version, account ID, interface ID,
source address, destination address,
source port, destination port, protocol packets
by start and action and log status.
So this is metadata about the network packets
going into your VPC.
And you don't need to remember this at a high level, right?
But let's have a look at what information
we can get out of these flow logs.
So the source address,
and the destination address help identify problematic IP.
This is where you see if an IP is repeatedly being denied,
maybe there is something wrong with that IP,
or maybe you're being attacked by a specific IP.
Source port and destination port
help you identify the problematic ports.
Action is going to be either accept or reject,
and so it's going to say whether or not
it's a success or failure at the SG or NACL level.
And we'll see this in the very next slide.
And so this can be used the VPC Flow Logs
to do analytics on usage patterns,
or detect management behavior, port scans and so on.
Now to query these Flow Logs, you have two ways of doing it.
The best ways to do Athena on S3,
or if you wanted to do a streaming analysis,
you could use CloudWatch Logs insights.
So here are some examples
that you can have a look on your own time for Flow Logs.
So how do we use flow logs to troubleshoot
security group and NACL issues?
Well, we look at the action field.
So let's have a look at the typical incoming request
for your NACL and your subnet.
So remember, your NACL's are stateless
and your security groups are stateful.
So what happens, well, if we get an inbound reject,
so we see that the inbound request from
from the outside to our EC2 instance is rejected,
that can means that either from this graph,
the NACL is refusing the request,
or the security group is refusing the request.
And this makes sense, right?
But if we have a inbound accept and an outbound reject,
it can only mean a NACL issue, why?
Or because your security group is stateful,
and if the inbound is allowed because of the accept,
automatically the outbound will be allowed
thanks to the statefulness of your security group.
So after outgoing request, similar analysis, right?
This is the diagram we know already.
And so if you get an outbound reject,
then you have a NACL or a security group issue,
but if you get an outbound accept and an inbound reject,
then it must mean a NACL issue.
So let's have a look at a few architectures
for your VPC flow logs,
so they can flow into CloudWatch Logs as we know.
And then we can use something called
CloudWatch Contributor Insights, for example,
to find the top 10 IP addresses
that contribute to the most amount of network on your VPC,
or on ENI or whatever you want.
You can also use VPC flow logs
to send them again into CloudWatch logs.
Here we can set up a metric filter
to look for example for the SSH or the RDP protocols.
And if we realize that there's a lot more
SSH, or RDP than usual, then trigger a CloudWatch alarm,
and send an alert into an Amazon SNS topic
because something fishy may be happening on your network.
Or we can use a VPC Flow Log.
And then we send everything into an S3 bucket for storage,
and we use Amazon Athena to analyze
the VPC Flow Logs with SQL,
and we can even visualize that with Amazon QuickSight.
So that's it for VPC Flow Logs,
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.